All right so we've built a couple of small projects on our local machine.
Now I want to start looking at how to actually get a Web site online.
And we talked a little bit about this in the beginning of the course you're usually going to register
a domain name and then by some kind of hosting account although many hosting accounts do include a free
domain name.
So in this video I just want to go over the different types of hosting there are as well as the pricing
points.
So these are the most common types of hosting we have shared hosting VPN us which is a virtual private
server dedicated server reseller hosting cloud hosting and static hosting.
So we're gonna go over each of these and talk about what they are.
So aside from from free tiers of static hosting which I'll get to in a bit shared hosting is definitely
the cheapest ranging from around three dollars to 15 dollars per month although a lot of times you'll
have to pay by the year so it'll be around 70 bucks 70 to 100 bucks a year which isn't bad and shared
hosting means that you get one of many accounts on the same server and on the same operating system
environment.
And this is suitable for most small Web sites so anything that we build in this course would be just
fine on a shared host in terms of data and size.
However they usually restrict bandwidth so if you have a site where you're expecting you know tens of
thousands of users every day it's probably not the best thing you probably want to go with with something
of a higher tier but if it's some local business like a flower shop or something like that in most cases
it's gonna be fine.
I built Web sites for local businesses for a long time and I would say 90 percent of them use the shared
web host.
So this is definitely probably where you're going to want to start I should say probably where you're
going to start or maybe static hosting which I'll get to in a little bit.
And this is this is what we'll be doing in this section we're gonna set up a shared host shared hosted
account within motion which is a great service great company that I've used for years now most of these
these types of accounts are managed and they include email servers so you'll be able to set up your
email with your domain name you get a control panel to view analytics create FTB accounts you can upload
files you can even create databases a lot of them come with like you know one click installs for things
like WordPress so shared hosting is great for small local businesses and like I said I suggest in motion
but there's also hosted gator blue hosted these.
These are some other companies that I've worked with that are really good as well.
All right.
So next up we have VPN or virtual private server and this is a step up from shared hosting you're going
to get a it's basically an account that's on a physical machine but it's a virtualize environment.
OK so with shared hosting you have the same environment you just have different accounts on a VPN you
have you have less people on the same server and they're all their own environments.
So it's more secure you know it's less prone to issues from other accounts things like that you also
get much more access with a shared account you usually can't log in through SSL H or through the shell
as a route user and with a VPN yes you have much more control you can log in his route you can install
things in these range from usually range from about twenty to one hundred dollars per month and obviously
different packages have different disk space and bandwidth restrictions just like a shared host a VPN
is great if you plan on having more than one web site you can actually create your own smaller shared
accounts with their own separate control panels and you could even sell shared accounts but a reseller
is better for that which I'll talk about next.
So a reseller account is very similar to a VPN Yes except it's more geared towards reselling shared
hosting to third parties.
So you'll basically get a panel where you can create and terminate shared accounts and you can sell
those to two users on your Web site and most reseller packages come bundled with a piece of software
called W. HCM s which is used for billing.
You can actually make it so when a user pays through the system which you can integrate into your Web
site a new account gets set up on your reseller server.
OK.
And then they'll get sent an email and they'll be able to log in and all this.
I actually did this for about three or four years when I had my web dev company but I wouldn't suggest
doing it unless unless you really know what you're doing.
You know you need to really know about things like DNS and and dev ops and stuff like that all right.
So a dedicated server is an actual physical machine sitting in a data center that you rent out.
So as opposed to just basically having an account on a server with other people you you actually not
own but rent the machine.
And these are definitely the most expensive.
They range anywhere from one hundred which is very very cheap.
You're lucky to find a dedicated server for 100 bucks to four hundred and even more than that.
Now these are great for large sites and applications that are going to have tons of users.
You get full freedom you can usually install whatever operating system you want.
Stuff like that.
Most likely Linux Linux rules.
The hosting world.
So most of the time your servers will run Linux.
Some some distribution of Linux.
The downside is they're much harder to manage and in most cases you'll probably have like a designated
dev ops person on a team managing a dedicated server.
All right.
So next is cloud hosting.
And this is more for web applications more so than just static web sites.
So if you build something like a social network or an e-commerce site using a language like Python PJ
P or something like no J.S. cloud hosting is great for that.
It's basically having multiple servers working together and it's extremely powerful and scalable Digital
Ocean is one of my favorite providers for this.
The downside is you have to know a lot to manage cloud hosting.
You need to know a bunch of Linux terminal commands.
You need to know how to setup things like engine X servers firewalls and it gets really really advanced
and way beyond you know what we're doing in this course.
All right.
So lastly we have static hosting which is fairly new and a good example of this is net lo fi and get
hub pages.
We're actually going to be deploying to nullify a little later which is a fantastic service they offer
hosting but they also have additional features like server list functions if you want to add some dynamic
functionality and also contact form submission which is really cool and they're used for both front
end applications and static web sites including sites that want to have backend services Natalya find
GitHub pages both have free tiers.
So if you just want to host your site without having the bells and whistles of a control panel you know
e-mail and all that you can do that for free.
But if he I mean you could still have email on that domain you'll just most likely have to have it's
connected to some other service some kind of email service.
Now you will need to know at least the basics of get which is a version control system to deploy to
either notify or get hub pages.
But we're going to do that later.
I'm going to teach you some of the basic commands and it's really not that difficult.
All right.
So for now what we're gonna do is jump in and we're going to upload our edge ledger Web site to in motion
hosting to a shared account and they'll show you how to create FCP how to upload your files and all
that good stuff.